Crunchy fish fingers with wedges recipe

These homemade fish fingers and sweet potato wedges make for a delicious, healthier version of one of the nation's favorite family dishes.
Prep: 15 mins
Cook: 45 mins
Serves 4

Per serving (1/4 recipe):
1,741kJ / 416kcal
34g protein
56g carbohydrate, of which 5g sugars
2g fat, of which 1g saturates
3.5g fibre
0.5g salt

Ingredients
4 tablespoons vegetable oil
4 medium-sized sweet potatoes, scrubbed clean, halved and each half cut into 4 wedges
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
500g pollock, cod, skinless haddock or similar white fish
1 egg
100g dried golden breadcrumbs
200g frozen peas, or frozen mixed veg

Method
Preheat the oven to 200C (180C fan, gas mark 6). Put the wedges into a roasting tin and add 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil, tossing to coat. Season with some pepper, and put in the oven to bake for 45 minutes.
Information:
You can use normal potatoes, or a mix of normal and sweet potatoes, if you like. Make sure to leave the skins on too – they're packed with taste and fibre!
Grease a baking tray with a little of the vegetable oil. Beat the egg in a shallow dish with 3 tablespoons of cold water. Sprinkle the breadcrumbs onto a plate.
Information:
If you like, add a few dried herbs or a pinch of paprika to the breadcrumbs to give extra flavour to the fish fingers.
Cut the fish fillets into even-sized "fingers", and season with some pepper. Dip the fish fingers into the egg mixture, then roll them in the breadcrumbs and arrange on the baking tray, leaving some space between them.
When the potatoes have been in the oven for 25 minutes, turn them over using a spatula. At the same time, put the fish fingers in the oven. Cook for 20 minutes, until crisp and golden brown.
Put the vegetables on to cook in a small amount of boiling water 5 minutes before the fish and wedges are ready. Drain once cooked, and serve everything together.
Information:
Add some extra flavour by mixing together some chopped fresh parsley with 4 tablespoons of plain low-fat yoghurt and a squeeze of lemon to make a tasty dip.