Salmon and broccoli pasta recipe

On the table in half an hour, this healthy, delicious and filling pasta dish is perfect for busy mid-week evenings.
Prep: 15 mins
Cook: 15 mins
Serves 4

Per serving:
1955kJ / 465kcal
34.2g protein
13.8g fat, of which 3.6g saturates
45.9g carbohydrate, of which 7.1g sugars
10.6g fibre
0.5g salt

Ingredients
2 salmon fillets
250g wholemeal pasta (any shape is fine, but penne works well)
5 spring onions, washed and chopped
400g broccoli, broken into small florets
100g peas (fresh or frozen)
150g lower-fat soft cheese
150ml skimmed milk
zest of 1 lemon
2 tablespoons fresh parsley or chives, chopped
1 pinch ground black pepper
4 teaspoons reduced-fat hard cheese, finely grated

Method
Set a large saucepan of water on the hob to boil and preheat the grill to medium-high. Arrange the salmon fillets on the grill rack and cook for 5 to 6 minutes. Turn off the grill and leave the salmon to rest.
While the salmon is grilling, cook the pasta shapes in the boiling water for 8 minutes, then add the spring onions and broccoli and cook for a further 3 or 4 minutes.
Information:
For an extra portion of veg, try adding a chopped courgette or pepper along with the broccoli.
Put the peas in a large colander. Once the pasta, broccoli and spring onions are cooked, drain them into the colander over the peas – make sure to reserve 2 tablespoons of the cooking water in the pan.
Put the soft cheese and skimmed milk into the hot saucepan with the reserved cooking water. Stir over a medium heat until smooth. Then add the lemon zest and parsley (or chives).
Return the pasta and vegetables to the saucepan with the sauce and heat gently for a couple of minutes, until warmed through.
Carefully break the salmon into chunks and add to the pan – stir gently to avoid the salmon breaking up too much. Season everything with pepper, then serve each portion with 1 teaspoon of grated cheese on top.
Information:
This dish works with any pasta, so use what you have. But remember that wholewheat pasta is higher in fibre.